README

TEAM
Anuj Mehndiratta (amehndi1)
Brennan Schneider (bschne20)
Garren Angacian (gangaci1)
April 20, 2016
CS120 Intermediate Programming


DESIGN
Our overall design is relatively simple. The following is a brief explanation 
on the design:

We have a game class that has a virtual attack square method, and it also has 
an int turn that all of our games use to keep track of who's turn it is in each
of the games. 

We have a board class that creates a board object of whatever size we pass in to
the constructor. This board initializes a square board of dash characters. In both
of the battleship games we then initialize the spots that have ships to letters
that correspond to the ship. For checkers we fill in the players chips onto the 
board with player1 being O's and player2 being x's. 

For Static Battleships:
Static battleships has ship objects that are initialized on the board and then 
players alternate and attack squares on the opponents board until someoene has
no ships left. 

For Mobile Battleships:
Mobile battlships also has ship objects that are initialed on the board as part
of setup and then players can either move their ships or attack the other players
ships on their turn. When the other player's board doesn't have any more ships
left on it a player wins.

For Checkers:
We have one board with player 1 being O's who goes first and player 2 
being X's who goes second on the board. We move around the board and keep track 
of the coordinates of the pieces of a given players pieces in a map. We update 
that a piece becomes a king in the map and then apply new rules to it. Our code 
for checkers is broken down into many many methods to allow for easy reading. Each
function takes care of a very specific case. Attack square then uses these 
functions and handles most of the gameplay.   


REQUIRED LANGUAGE FEATURES:
Containers:
For all games:
	We have a board class that all of the games use. This board is a vector of
	vectors of chars vector<vector<char>>. We also have a player class that both
	of our games use. This player class has a map of Coords to chars. This map
	is used to store the type of piece and the pieces location for a given player
	in checkers and it is used to store the type of ship and the location of the
	ship for battleships.

Both Battleships Games:
	For Battleships we made a ships class. This is primarily where we use 
	container classes for the battleships games. For the battleships game we have 
	a map of characters to an array of coordinates. This map helps us see what the
	coordinates of a given ship are. We also have another array that is just used
	to store the given ships coordinates. In our BPlayer class, we have an array
	of all of a given players ship objects. These are all of the containers that
	we used for battleships.

Checkers Game:
	The checkers game uses a map from coordinates to chars that tells the player
	where its chips are on the board and whether they are a regular chip or a 
	king chip on that spot.  

Inheritance and Polymorphism:
For all games:
	We have a games target for this project. In the games.cpp file, we do very
	very little work. The interface for all of the games and the setup is handled 
	in the User class. All of the games extend the game class and use the board 
	object that is created and initialized in the board class. Static Battleships
	extends the game class and Mobile Battleships extends the Static Battelships
	class. The battleships games also have BPlayer objects that are the players 
	of the game. BPlayers, extend general Players. Both battleships also make use 
	of the ship class which has defined the ship objects. The ship class extends 
	the piece class. Checkers also extends the game class. Checkers makes use of 
	Player objects since we didn’t need as much specific info for the player in
	this game. Checkers also makes use of the pieces object. We also implemented
	operator overloading on the << to make the operator print out our board for
	checkers. We used this during checkers and it was super useful so we could see
	our moves as we did them. 
  


COMPLETENESS
Our Code should be complete and should work perfectly.


SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS
We have submitted some input files (input1.txt and input2.txt) these correspond
to (checkersinput1.txt and checkersinput2.txt). The input files can be fed into
the program as a test for checkers. We made these to test the game and every case 
on top of our testing unit. This is just an extra piece of work that we did and 
decided to submit with our project. One minor note, when looking over the final 
instructions we realized that if a piece jumped to become a king it should only 
print CROWNED but ours prints JUMPED CROWNED, but does the move correctly exactly 
how they want us to, the only difference is that word being printed. 

To test our files we used a bunch of text files that you can use.
You have to do:
./games < MobileBattleshipGame1.txt > output1.txt
./games < MobileBattleshipGame2.txt > output2.txt
./games < StaticBattleshipGame1.txt > output3.txt
./games < CheckersGame1.txt > output4.txt
./games < CheckersGame1.txt > output5.txt

We made output files by hand that should correspond to the given moves from the 
text file. Then we compared the output files to what our program spit out to see 
if we did it right. After a bunch of testing, debugging, and some great teamwork and 
enthusiasm we were able to make the files match and our programs worked perfectly
even for more cases that we did not show! Awesome!

Also CheckersGame1Explanation.txt explains what each move should do for CheckersGame1.txt
and CheckersGame2Explanation.txt explains what each move should do for CheckersGame2.txt.